my name is Ronnie kols I'm a South
African uh I served in the Liberation
struggle all my adult life I became a
minister in Mr Mandela's government
growing up in Johannesburg in the 1940s
from a Jewish immigrant
family um I was very affected by the
Nazi
Holocaust but I began looking around as
I grew up South Africa and I couldn't
bear seeing the way black people were
treated the sharpeville massacre took
place in March of
1960 and I felt then that I had to act
my life changed and I got deeply
involved in the struggle to liberate
South Africa where you have one
oppressor group that perpetuates
repression over other races in order to
maintain their
Supremacy and to perpetuate the system
and that's a part it so it can be
applied anywhere in the world and it has
been in apartate Israel a settler
colonial state originally and an
apartate State as well just like South
Africa so you're talking about 75 years
of aort at Israel from
1948 in which they through Terror and
violence and massacres and instilling
huge fear into people they pushed
700,000 or more Palestinians in their
ethnic cleansing to clear the territory
of Palestine this is genocide and we see
in this crisis of so many many deaths
through a bombing campaign an assault
with tanks and artillery reducing 2/3 of
the housing to Rubble it's absolutely
Butchery it's
abominable and we the world is in fact
standing
up make sure to subscribe to our channel
to get the latest news from Al
jazer